\# SACTN South African Coastal Temperature Network (SACTN) Note: In this
document, \*nearshore\* refers to temperatures measured (\*in situ\*) at
distances less than 400 m from the shoreline, usually at depths of less
than 4 m below mean low water spring tide level. \* Provide software
tools for data extraction. \* Provide better interpolation / estimates
of missing data (in time and space) e.g. using DINEOF (Christo: check
out some of the tools in the Captain MATLAB toolbox). This kind of
analysis to use satellite data (etc.) as input to arrive at estimates
(model) of the missing spatial extents along the coast. \* What is the
best interpolation procedure to use along the coast? Should take into
account the effects of capes and bays, etc. \* Provide real-time data at
selected sites – feed into real-time models for coastal (nearshore)
temperatures along the South African coast. Eventually have real-time
data for the whole coast. \* Provide recommendations on the correct
application of SST (gridded, various products) near the coast. \*
Provide error estimates for the use of SST products over the shelf and
in upwelling regions. \* Apply for Thuthuka funding and NRF funding and
PDP funding. Two sub-groups: \* Technical advisory. \* Scientific
advisory. The overall aim of the Coastal Temperature Network (CoTN) is
to design, coordinate, develop and implement a publicly accessible
online database of all long-term in situ seawater temperature records
available in the coastal region along the South African shoreline. This
database – termed the South African National Temperature Network (SANTN)
– will receive data from diverse sources, including from SAEON itself,
the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA), the Department of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF), the South African Weather
Service (SAWS), the KwaZulu-Natal Sharks Board (KZNSB), and Ezemvelo KZN
Wildlife (EKZNW). Objectives will be to: • Plan the technical and
scientific framework underpinning the SANTN. • Coordinate the technical
and computing infrastructure necessary for data assimilation, processing
and dissemination. • Manage the timeous and continuous collection of new
data from the donor organisations, and appending it to the SANTN
database. • Provide a platform to support ongoing scientific enquiry
into the spatial and long-term temporal variation of the marine thermal
environment in the South African EEZ. • Advise National Government re
consequences for climate change, marine resource management. Policy
development…?
